---
title:  "Random"
last_modified_at: 2020-05-07T19:00:00-04:00
---
So after a long time contemplating how to build an effective portfolio I finally decided on building my own website using github pages. It definitely wasn't easy sailing through this process. I had to scratch my head over a ton of stuff to figure out a way to build this website through a repository on github.

Disclaimer: Before you read on, know that if you embark on this journey without any prior knowledge of html, css or ruby, it will take time to get a hang of things. You HAVE to be patient in order to make this work.

If you don't care about themes in general, building a website on github is fairly easy. However, if you're like me (who wants customizable formats) you'll have to take the longer route.

Before I get onto the technical aspects, let me tell you my long path to this stage:

1. I first started a blog on wordpress back in 2016. I tried to make use of it, but it barely took off. I even tried to revive it in 2019, but to no avail. I just couldn't make it my own I guess even with all the options it provided. The other big struggle I had was when I had blogs with pictures and a lot of text which was making the process a nightmare.

2. I also thought about writing medium articles and showcasing everything through that platform, but I just didn't like the idea that someone would have to probably pay to even view my stuff. That essentially defeats two things in my opinion: (i) I won't be able to market myself the way I truly wish to and (ii) I am a strong believer in the open source community and it just didn't feel right. Although as I progress in my career in the field of Data Science, I would contribute to the Medium platform in some form, but right now it just feels like I need to give back to this growing community, especially since most of the stuff I've ever ended up learning was because of this open source community.

3. Last thing I tried (which was also fairly recent) was creating a website on wix. As it turns out, having your name exclusively in the url is pretty cool as opposed to having a ".wix.com" or a ".wordpress.com" at the end of your website. Moreover, the amount of options available overwhelmed me to the point that I just didn't feel like it's "MY WEBSITE" anymore even with all the customizations available.

At the end of the day, I did want options to customize my website, but also wanted to keep it simple. I finally resorted to github pages and felt like it's a good learning process too.

Now, I made a lot of mistakes. By 'a lot' I mean A LOT! It was a freaking nightmare initially. I had to install ruby but turns out my mac already has one, so I was like that's great (but it's NOT). Then there was something to do with "gems" and "gemfiles". Then there was jekyll and themes. It was tough to be brutally honest.

But here I am now, my website is up and running and it's in decent shape for now. Here is my breakdown to how you should go about building your own website on github pages:
